# 5. Suggested Plan of Action

1. Accept the starting code assignment. During development, ensure that you regularly push to GitHub Classroom. 

2. Define a datatype to model the different entities 
   - lecturer
   - module
   - room
   - student group
   - programme (this is not mandatory) 

and use the ***cassava*** package to parse the csv files into a collection of vectors (if sucessful).


3. Write fuctions to test the data above for 
    - 'internal' (length of string)
    - 'cross-data' (foreigh key check)

validations. 

4. Generate test data for the following csv files 
   - lecturer
   - module
   - room
   - student group
   - programme (this is not mandatory) 

5. Test the validations on this data.

6. Once you have those validations written and tested (including generating a validation report), move onto allocating lecturers to modules/groups. 

7. Generate an allocations set of data. 

8. Write functions to validate the allocations and to generate a validation report. 

9. Once you have the validated allocations completed, now move on to timetable data. 

10. Generate a csv file with a timetable to implement the allocations verified in 8.  

11. Write the functions to check the timetable entity for validity (as per tab 'Validation of Timetable')

12. Having tested your validations for the timetable entity, you should be able to start the next section with validated timetable entity. 

13. You are then asked to generate timetables in document form for
    1. Lecturers
    2. Groups (students)
    3. Rooms


7. During the development of the project, you should (briefly) describe the order of your work (in readme.md). Before final submission, you should also do a quick review of your assignment under the headings:

    - Main learnings of project;
    - Main difficulties that you came across;
    - Any extra functionalities not mentioned in the spec that you implemented;
    - Reference to any material outside of notes used. 

