# 7. Submitting your work


### Deadline

- Sunday 23:50, 31st August, 2025.

### Interviews
- Tuesday pm , 2nd September, 2025.


### Submitting

- **GitHub**: Do a final commit of all your work and push it to your remote repository.

- **Moodle**: 
    - Zip the folder containing the stack project
    - Upload this zip file to Moodle. 


### Interviews

It is compulsory that you are interviewed on your submission in order to demonstrate both Understanding and Authorship.

These interviews will take place in labs on Tuesday September 2nd, in the afternoon. A schedule will be sent to you by Monday September 1st. 

During your interview, you will be asked to explain your work. This is to ensure that the work is your own. You may be asked (for example) to explain:

- Any of the code.
- How a specific function works 
- How specific functions work together
- Overview of your approach to assignment
- etc.

If you do not present for your interview you will receive 0 for the interview.  As the interview grade is a multiplier for your assigment grade, should you fail to show for your interview, you will receive zero, resulting in an overall grade of zero for your submission.



### Referencing external materials

If you use code other than from lectures and labs (e.g. ChatGPT or other AIBots, StackOverFlow, other GitHub accounts, etc), you should always reference it. Failure to do so is plagiarism and will lead to a zero mark.
Fully referenced but not demonstrably understood code will be seen as plagiarism also. 

## Plagiarism

## I will follow through on a level 1 or level 2 plagiarism procedure if I consider that you have submitted plagiarised code. This is not a pleasant process for anyone. I will help and support you in any appropriate way to develop this assignment but if you submit work that is not your own and falls into the plagiarism context, then I will proceed. Please do not put either of us in this situation. 



### How is the final mark calculated?

The final mark is calculated using the following formula:

- (((Functionality of Code + Style + Extra Functionality Credit) ) * Interview Mark) / 10

Example:

- Functionality of code  + Style = 70/100
- Extra Functionality Credit = 6/10
- Interview Mark = 9/10
- Final mark = ((70 + 6) * 9) / 10 = 68.4%
